README.md, before:

# OPC PowerApps PCF Controls

[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/opc-cpvp/O365%20Cloud/_apis/build/status/PowerApps/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls%20-%20CI?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/opc-cpvp/O365%20Cloud/_build/latest?definitionId=51&branchName=master)

[![Total alerts](https://img.shields.io/lgtm/alerts/g/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18)](https://lgtm.com/projects/g/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/alerts/)
[![Language grade: JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/lgtm/grade/javascript/g/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18)](https://lgtm.com/projects/g/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/context:javascript)

Collection of PowerApps PCF Controls.

Controls:
- [Tag Picker Component](#tag-picker-component)
- [Tag Picker Grid Component](#tag-picker-grid-component)
- [Tree Component](#tree-component)
- [Task Manager Component](#task-manager-component)

Plugins:
- TagRegistrationPlugin

## Download

You can download the latest version of the managed / un-managed solution from the project's [releases](https://github.com/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/releases/latest).

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes.

### Prerequisites

Follow the instructions as per the [documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powerapps/developer/component-framework/create-custom-controls-using-pcf) in order to configure your environment for PCF development.

### Building a Component

Navigate to the root folder of the component you wish to build and run the following commands:

```
npm run build
```

Note: You must run `npm install` before building the component for the first time.

### Running a Component

Navigate to the root folder of the component you wish to build and run the following commands:

```
npm run start
```

Note: You must run `npm install` before running the component for the first time.

### Building the Plugin

Open the solution `OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls.sln` from Visual Studio 2019 and build the projects.

### Building the Solution

Run the following command from the `Solution` folder in order to build the solution:

```
msbuild /p:Configuration=Release /restore
```

## Tag Picker Component

[![dependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/status.svg?path=src/Components/TagPickerComponent)](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls?path=src/Components/TagPickerComponent) [![devDependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/dev-status.svg?path=src/Components/TagPickerComponent)](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls?path=src/Components/TagPickerComponent&type=dev)

### Preview

![TagPickerComponent Preview](img/tagpickercomponent.gif?raw=true)

### Purpose

The purpose of this control is to allow user to associate / disassociate records for a many-to-many relationship in the form of tags. This also works when creating an entity for the first time.

### Configuration

|Parameter|Description|Required|Bound to an attribute|
|---------|-----------|:----:|:---:|
|**Tag Data**|Stores the temporary values required for the creation of the related entities|X|X|
|**Related Entity**|Logical name of the related entity|X||
|**Relationship Name**|Relationship name between the primary entity and the related entity|X||
|**Relationship Entity**|Logical name of the relationship entity|X||

## Tag Picker Grid Component

[![dependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/status.svg?path=src/Components/TagPickerGridComponent)](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls?path=src/Components/TagPickerGridComponent) [![devDependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/dev-status.svg?path=src/Components/TagPickerGridComponent)](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls?path=src/Components/TagPickerGridComponent&type=dev)

### Preview

![TagPickerGridComponent Preview](img/tagpickergridcomponent.gif?raw=true)

The purpose of this control is to allow user to associate / disassociate records for a many-to-many relationship in the form of tags.

### Configuration

|Parameter|Description|Required|Bound to an attribute|
|---------|-----------|:----:|:---:|
|**Related Entity**|Logical name of the related entity|X||
|**Relationship Name**|Relationship name between the primary entity and the related entity|X||
|**Relationship Entity**|Logical name of the relationship entity|X||
|**Label Text**|Field label that will be displayed on the form. It currently accepts the following formats: `Label` or `en=Label\|fr=Étiquette`|X||

## Tree Component

[![dependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/status.svg?path=src/Components/TreeComponent)](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls?path=src/Components/TreeComponent) [![devDependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/dev-status.svg?path=src/Components/TreeComponent)](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls?path=src/Components/TreeComponent&type=dev)

### Preview

![TreeComponent Preview](img/treeselect.gif)

The purpose of this control is to allow user to associate / disassociate hierarchical records for a many-to-many relationship in the form of a tree.

### Configuration

|Parameter|Description|Required|Bound to an attribute|
|---------|-----------|:----:|:---:|
|**Tree Entity Collection Name**|Plural name of the related entity|X||
|**Tree Entity Attribute**|The parent record attribute for the tree entity|X||
|**Name Attribute**|The attribute that will be used to display text of the node in the tree|X||
|**Id Attribute**|The attribute for the ID of the tree record|X||
|**Relationship Name**|Relationship name between the primary entity and the related entity|X||
|**Relationship Entity**|Logical name of the relationship entity|X||
|**Description Attribute**|The description attribute of the tree record, currently only used to aid searching|||
|**Extra Title Details Attribute**|The attribute of the tree entity that will add extra details to the display text of the node in the tree |||
|**Is Checkable Attribute**|The checkable attribute of the tree entity, determines whether a node can be checked in the tree  |||
|**Max Name Display Length (Work in Progress)**|The max amount of characters the text of the node will be displayed in the tree |||

## Task Manager Component

[![dependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/status.svg?path=src/Components/TaskManagerComponent)](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls?path=src/Components/TaskManagerComponent) [![devDependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/dev-status.svg?path=src/Components/TaskManagerComponent)](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls?path=src/Components/TaskManagerComponent&type=dev)

### Preview

![TaskManagerComponent Preview](img/taskmanagercomponent.gif?raw=true)

The purpose of this control is provide a better user experience to manage tasks associated to a given entity.

### Configuration

|Parameter|Description|Required|Bound to an attribute|
|---------|-----------|:----:|:---:|
|**View**|View used for the list of tasks. The following mandatory fields must be included in the view; *statecode, statuscode, subject, description*.|||
|**Badge Configuration**|Configuration of colored badges in JSON in following format: `[ { "name": "*optionset_field1*", "keys": [ 5, 6 ] }, { "name": "*optionset_field2*", "keys": [1,2,3,4] } ]`. Code will lookup the optionset metadata for colors and translations|||
|**Panel Title**|Title that will appear above the tasks list in following format: `en=Label\|fr=Étiquette`|X||


## Versioning

We use [SemVer](http://semver.org/) for versioning. For the versions available, see the [tags on this repository](https://github.com/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/tags).

## Authors

See also the list of [contributors](https://github.com/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/contributors) who participated in this project.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details

Commit message:

Modified README to add info on disabling telemetry options for Power Apps CLI and on testing a component using fiddler.

README.md, after:

# OPC PowerApps PCF Controls

[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/opc-cpvp/O365%20Cloud/_apis/build/status/PowerApps/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls%20-%20CI?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/opc-cpvp/O365%20Cloud/_build/latest?definitionId=51&branchName=master)

[![Total alerts](https://img.shields.io/lgtm/alerts/g/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18)](https://lgtm.com/projects/g/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/alerts/)
[![Language grade: JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/lgtm/grade/javascript/g/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18)](https://lgtm.com/projects/g/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/context:javascript)

Collection of PowerApps PCF Controls.

Controls:
- [Tag Picker Component](#tag-picker-component)
- [Tag Picker Grid Component](#tag-picker-grid-component)
- [Tree Component](#tree-component)
- [Task Manager Component](#task-manager-component)

Plugins:
- TagRegistrationPlugin

## Download

You can download the latest version of the managed / un-managed solution from the project's [releases](https://github.com/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/releases/latest).

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes.

### Prerequisites

Follow the instructions as per the [documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powerapps/developer/component-framework/create-custom-controls-using-pcf) in order to configure your environment for PCF development.
You will need to disable the telemetry option for the Power Apps CLI by running the following command:

```
pac telemetry disable
```

### Building a Component

Navigate to the root folder of the component you wish to build and run the following commands:

```
npm run build
```

Note: You must run `npm install` before building the component for the first time.

### Running a Component

Navigate to the root folder of the component you wish to run and run the following commands:

```
npm run start
```

Note: You must run `npm install` before running the component for the first time.

### Testing an existing Component

After building your component, use fiddler's autoresponder to replace the content of the web resource with the content you have just built.
It should be located in the "out" folder under the component's folder. The file should be called bundle.js.

### Building the Plugin

Open the solution `OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls.sln` from Visual Studio 2019 and build the projects.

### Building the Solution

Run the following command from the `Solution` folder in order to build the solution:

```
msbuild /p:Configuration=Release /restore
```

## Tag Picker Component

[![dependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/status.svg?path=src/Components/TagPickerComponent)](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls?path=src/Components/TagPickerComponent) [![devDependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/dev-status.svg?path=src/Components/TagPickerComponent)](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls?path=src/Components/TagPickerComponent&type=dev)

### Preview

![TagPickerComponent Preview](img/tagpickercomponent.gif?raw=true)

### Purpose

The purpose of this control is to allow user to associate / disassociate records for a many-to-many relationship in the form of tags. This also works when creating an entity for the first time.

### Configuration

|Parameter|Description|Required|Bound to an attribute|
|---------|-----------|:----:|:---:|
|**Tag Data**|Stores the temporary values required for the creation of the related entities|X|X|
|**Related Entity**|Logical name of the related entity|X||
|**Relationship Name**|Relationship name between the primary entity and the related entity|X||
|**Relationship Entity**|Logical name of the relationship entity|X||

## Tag Picker Grid Component

[![dependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/status.svg?path=src/Components/TagPickerGridComponent)](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls?path=src/Components/TagPickerGridComponent) [![devDependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/dev-status.svg?path=src/Components/TagPickerGridComponent)](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls?path=src/Components/TagPickerGridComponent&type=dev)

### Preview

![TagPickerGridComponent Preview](img/tagpickergridcomponent.gif?raw=true)

The purpose of this control is to allow user to associate / disassociate records for a many-to-many relationship in the form of tags.

### Configuration

|Parameter|Description|Required|Bound to an attribute|
|---------|-----------|:----:|:---:|
|**Related Entity**|Logical name of the related entity|X||
|**Relationship Name**|Relationship name between the primary entity and the related entity|X||
|**Relationship Entity**|Logical name of the relationship entity|X||
|**Label Text**|Field label that will be displayed on the form. It currently accepts the following formats: `Label` or `en=Label\|fr=Étiquette`|X||

## Tree Component

[![dependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/status.svg?path=src/Components/TreeComponent)](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls?path=src/Components/TreeComponent) [![devDependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/dev-status.svg?path=src/Components/TreeComponent)](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls?path=src/Components/TreeComponent&type=dev)

### Preview

![TreeComponent Preview](img/treeselect.gif)

The purpose of this control is to allow user to associate / disassociate hierarchical records for a many-to-many relationship in the form of a tree.

### Configuration

|Parameter|Description|Required|Bound to an attribute|
|---------|-----------|:----:|:---:|
|**Tree Entity Collection Name**|Plural name of the related entity|X||
|**Tree Entity Attribute**|The parent record attribute for the tree entity|X||
|**Name Attribute**|The attribute that will be used to display text of the node in the tree|X||
|**Id Attribute**|The attribute for the ID of the tree record|X||
|**Relationship Name**|Relationship name between the primary entity and the related entity|X||
|**Relationship Entity**|Logical name of the relationship entity|X||
|**Description Attribute**|The description attribute of the tree record, currently only used to aid searching|||
|**Extra Title Details Attribute**|The attribute of the tree entity that will add extra details to the display text of the node in the tree |||
|**Is Checkable Attribute**|The checkable attribute of the tree entity, determines whether a node can be checked in the tree  |||
|**Max Name Display Length (Work in Progress)**|The max amount of characters the text of the node will be displayed in the tree |||

## Task Manager Component

[![dependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/status.svg?path=src/Components/TaskManagerComponent)](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls?path=src/Components/TaskManagerComponent) [![devDependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/dev-status.svg?path=src/Components/TaskManagerComponent)](https://david-dm.org/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls?path=src/Components/TaskManagerComponent&type=dev)

### Preview

![TaskManagerComponent Preview](img/taskmanagercomponent.gif?raw=true)

The purpose of this control is provide a better user experience to manage tasks associated to a given entity.

### Configuration

|Parameter|Description|Required|Bound to an attribute|
|---------|-----------|:----:|:---:|
|**View**|View used for the list of tasks. The following mandatory fields must be included in the view; *statecode, statuscode, subject, description*.|||
|**Badge Configuration**|Configuration of colored badges in JSON in following format: `[ { "name": "*optionset_field1*", "keys": [ 5, 6 ] }, { "name": "*optionset_field2*", "keys": [1,2,3,4] } ]`. Code will lookup the optionset metadata for colors and translations|||
|**Panel Title**|Title that will appear above the tasks list in following format: `en=Label\|fr=Étiquette`|X||


## Versioning

We use [SemVer](http://semver.org/) for versioning. For the versions available, see the [tags on this repository](https://github.com/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/tags).

## Authors

See also the list of [contributors](https://github.com/opc-cpvp/OPC.PowerApps.PCFControls/contributors) who participated in this project.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details
